US President Joe Biden has urged Israel
to protect Palestinian civilians in its
planned ground offensive of the Gaz and
city of Rafa Biden met with Jordan's
King Abdullah on Monday at the White
House their first face-to-face meeting
since Israel's war with Hamas began
Biden said the two had discussed a
possible six-week break in the fighting
Jordan has been pushing for a permanent
ceasefire Washington is the King's first
stop on a tour that includes Canada
France and Germany
here is part of what Biden had to say in
a joint news conference partly focused
on Israel's expected move on
Rafa the major military operation raaa
should not proceed without a credible
plan a credible plan for ensuring the
safety and support of more than 1
million people Sheltering
there let's bring in our Jerusalem
correspondent Rebecca RIT is here
Rebecca the US is Israel's most
important Ally it's one of several
countri countes urging Israel to think
twice about launching an an assault on
Rafa how are these words of caution
going down in
Israel well Terry this isn't the first
time that the US president has said this
he reiterated comments that he made a
few days ago uh and it really depends
when it comes to reaction on who you're
talking to or who you're talking about
uh Benjamin Netanyahu and his far right
Coalition members don't take criticism
uh against this operation very well they
many in the far right uh you know hit
back against uh President Biden when he
criticizes their mission um when you're
talking about the general populace
within Israel let's not forget that the
the war Israel's war in Gaza it does
have pretty strong broadspectrum support
here in Israel so when you talk to
Israelis and and you talk to them about
criticism or intern International
condemnation most of them say well what
do you expect we have the right to
defend ourselves and that is really uh
the main feeling across the country of
course there are some other voices who
say that you know these that these uh
the criticism from the International
Community and particularly the US need
to be heeded and I think in the end that
is something that will be taken
seriously by Benjamin Netanyahu even
though publicly he might uh you know he
might condemn these comments or he might
you know hit back the US president but
in the end I think it's unlikely he
needs the
uh and and he needs to try to avoid
further International condemnation so it
is likely that any you know ground
operation in Rafa will be taken as he
has said that he will they will be
looking uh to to try to evacuate the
civilians living there and I think you
know it's unlikely that an operation
will begin without at least some attempt
to do that you say they might Evacuate
the civilian population we're talking
about over over a million Palestinians
who've been compressed into this town of
Rafa uh is where would they go Rebecca
does Israel have a plan to to evacuate
them to a particular
place well that really is uh a major
question being asked here being asked by
the International Community in
particular and by eight organization
saying that there is just so few places
left uh for people to be able to go
Benjamin Netanyahu has has ordered the
Israeli military to come up with a plan
so far nothing has been made publicly
available as to where they see uh those
Palestinians being able to go there's
very few options as I mentioned you know
much of the the center and the north of
the strip has been destroyed there's few
places that people could potentially go
back to there and they are literally
running out of space in the southern
part of the strip so it remains to be
seen just what kind of plan uh the the
the Israeli military will come up with
uh that is something that Benjamin
Netanyahu has said is uh is underway and
is being looked at but no no details yet
on that
Terry meanwhile talks are still going on
uh trying to broker a ceasefire and uh
the release of those hostages being held
by Hamas how is that affecting how is
the talk of assault on Rafa affecting
those negotiations
Rebecca well quite severely
we've had you know Hamas certainly
saying that if there's a ground
operation then we are all out we are not
going to negotiate any any longer and
we've we've had the likes of Egypt
saying that if there's a ground
operation without the evacuation of
those civilians that they are looking at
potentially ripping up the peace
agreement they have with Israel now that
would have huge ramifications in the
region not just within Israel but but a
much wider ramification so uh you know
some really strong words coming there
and of course affecting these
negotiations that is something that the
Israeli population are looking at they
really really want negotiations they
really want to see at least a limited
ceas fire or a majority certainly want
to see a limited ceasefire in a in in
order to be able to have those remaining
hostages return safely uh but these
negotiations uh are ongoing despite uh
threats of this ground operation the
Israeli military is sending a delegation
to to Egypt today Egypt cat playing a
huge role the US also playing a part in
those negotiations they continue uh they
have we saw some some you know hope last
week people really sort of giving
positive words coming out of those
negotiations uh we've seen that falter a
little bit but they continue and the
hope is certainly from all sides uh that
all people involved in those
negotiations that some kind of deal
could be met if this ground operation
goes ahead however that looks less and
less likely
Rebecca thank you very much that was our
correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem more on this Let's cross over
to journalist kareim elari in Cairo
kareim first of all tell us what are
Egypt's concerns concerning an Israeli
ground invasion of Rafa that's right on
Egypt's
border yeah right and that's exactly why
there is a big fear in the Egyptians on
the Egyptian side that there might be
some kind of mass Exodus from the
Palestinian side towards Egypt towards
the north of sa that would be of course
not only a security problem for the
Egyptians but uh they really don't want
to be seen as any kind of part in a in a
wider displacement scenario of the
Palestinians because the big fear on the
Egyptian side is not only that the
people come over that but also that they
might be never be able uh to come back
there's also like in the Egyptian media
talk that such ground offensive might
reach the Cav peace agreement because
within this agreement there is an
agreement for a buffer zone between
Egypt and the Gaza Strip where the
Israeli Army a demilitarized buffone
where the Israeli Army can only be there
um without heavy weapons so that is
that's the other talk with in the
Egyptian media about this ground
offensive
now more than a million Palestinian
civilians are believed to be Sheltering
in Rafa they came there from other parts
of the Gaza Strip seeking shelter um
from what you know Kareem where can they
go if and when an invasion
begins well yeah no more sou left in the
Gaza Strip obviously uh so there is the
choice of crossing over this Mass Exodus
to Egypt I think the what the Americans
want from the Israelis that they create
some kind of corridor for people to flee
uh towards the north but I mean to flee
where too there's I mean big parts of
the north are completely destroyed uh
there's nothing provided for the people
no food no water no medical attention
and they're standing in front of the
ruins of their former
life Karine tell us about negotiations
that are taking place right now in Egypt
Kata Saudi Arabia the United States
Israel involving of those what would a
ground offensive on Rafa mean for those
negotiations well I think the the
everyone is trying to put up the heat
right now I mean alone the threat of the
ground offensive is of course putting up
the heat on Hamas from the Israeli side
uh and on the other side Hamas is saying
if there is some kind of if there is
this ground offensive that will be the
end about the negotiation of the
negotiations about the return of
hostages so both sides are really trying
to put up the heat here but it's of
course An Extremely Dangerous
Game the Biden Administration is putting
pressure on Israel to show some
restraint the Biden Administration is
also calling for at least a temporary
ceasefire how is that talk going down in
in Egypt and across the Palestinian
territories well not really very well I
mean I don't when I saw the pictures now
you showed when Biden was talking I saw
the King of Jordan besides him with
quite a grim face while Biden was
speaking of course it was like I heard
both of them last night um it's like two
words Biden is not in principle against
a ground offensive he wants just the the
Israelis to manage this ground offensive
in a certain way the King of Jordan was
very clear yesterday that he said there
should be no ground offensive there
should be an immediate ceasefire and
then immediate talks about a political
solution uh to this problem so I mean
we're talking like this was as if two
people two worlds in one room yesterday
with Biden and the King of Jordan Kareem
thank you very much as always that was
journalist Kareem El guari in
Cairo you're
welcome